README.md, before:

# 8k.fyi

![Text Entry](screenshots/1-small.jpg) ![Link Created](screenshots/2-small.jpg) ![Copy Link to Clipboard](screenshots/3-small.jpg)

Text storage / link maker with a default byte max of 8192 (configurable).

The input box retains whitespace, and supports Unicode entry (such as Emoji).

This early version stores data in memory only and uses a hash of the path as the storage key so that path is not stored on the server (the data itself is however stored in plaintext). The link it generated uses z-Base32 (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base32#z-base-32) to make the links easier to memorise.

Currently the server requires no external dependencies, however, it may become necessary, given some of the features I would like to add, to use some external libraries (e.g. for client side encryption in the browser, or for alternative storage backends)

# Demo

https://8k.fyi

# Command line usage

## CURL
The key to using CURL is to be sure to send the data using `--data-binary` to ensure it arrives intact.

Pass the filename to be uploaded to the `--data-binary` flag using `@<filename>`,
> On the command line, you need to specify an endpoint to use, so just make one up thats easy to remember.

```
curl -X POST --data-binary @nginx.log https://8k.fyi/nlog
https://8k.fyi/nlog
```
or alternatively if you want to cat or send the output of another command,
pipe the data to curl, and tell curl to read from stdin using `--data-binary @-`
```
cat datasheet.pdf | curl -X POST --data-binary @- https://8k.fyi/d.pdf
https://8k.fyi/d.pdf
```
A successful upload will return a 200 OK and the URL to the data you uploaded

## HTTPie

```
http https://8k.fyi/tf < file.txt
```
you can retrieve the file just as simply;
```
http https://8k.fyi/tf > file.txt
```

# Building

This project currently requires no external dependencies. There are no modules to pull, just build the code and run it.

## Docker
```
docker build -t 8192bytes --build-arg VERSION='1.0.0-alpha1' .
```

## Buildah
```
buildah bud -f Dockerfile --build-arg VERSION='1.0.0-alpha1' -t 8192bytes .
```

## Binary
```
CGO_ENABLED=0 go build -o 8192 -ldflags "-X github.com/2bytes/8k/internal/flags.Version=1.0.0-alpha1" cmd/8192/main.go
```

# Running

The container version can be run using Docker/Podman, and the binary can be executed on the platform for which it was built.

There are various flags for configuring the server, only `--iu-addr` is required.

```
Usage of ./8192:
  -accent-colour string
            set the accent colour for the web page (default "#FF8C00")
  -addr string
            set the bind address
  -html string
            set the path to the index html template file for the frontend (default "/frontend/index.html")
  -https
            enable TLS
  -mb int
            override the max bytes count (default 8192)
  -mi int
            set the maximum number of items to store before disallowing (default 1000)
  -pl int
            override autogenerated path length (default 8)
  -port int
            set the bind port (default 8192)
  -title string
            set the title of the web page (default "8k.fyi")
  -tls-cert string
            path to the TLS certificate (default "/tls/public.crt")
  -tls-key string
            path to the TLS key (default "/tls/private.key")
  -ttl duration
            the time before an uploaded data item expires and is deleted (default 1h0m0s)
  -ui-addr string
            UI: set the public address displayed in the UI text/links
  -ui-https
        UI: use 'https' as the proto displayed in the UI text/links
  -ui-port int
        UI: set the public port displayed in the UI/text/links (default 8192)
  -v	show version

```

## TLS

### Built-in Server
You can run the server with TLS directly by supplying the `-https` flag and mounting the certificates to `/tls/` using the
names shows in the defaults above, or, by settings the paths manually using the `-tls-cert` and `-tls-key` flags.

### Reverse Proxy
If you wish to run the server behind a reverse proxy, don't enable binding tls with `-https` but configure the `-ui-*` flags according to your requirements.

```
docker run --net backend --name 8kserver -d --rm  8192bytes --ui-addr 192.168.1.100 --ui-port 4433 --ui-https
```
If you run NGINX in Docker as a reverse proxy, you can attach nginx to the same network and refer to this server as '8kserver' in the upstream directive.

For a reverse proxy that isn't in Docker, bind the server to 127.0.0.1 and upstream nginx to that.

> Don't forget to configure your firewall (for both IPv4 and IPv6)!

Enjoy

[https://2byt.es](https://2byt.es)

Commit message:

Update documentation to indicate case sensitivity of paths (resolves #11)

README.md, after:

# 8k.fyi

![Text Entry](screenshots/1-small.jpg) ![Link Created](screenshots/2-small.jpg) ![Copy Link to Clipboard](screenshots/3-small.jpg)

Text storage / link maker with a default byte max of 8192 (configurable).

The input box retains whitespace, and supports Unicode entry (such as Emoji).

This early version stores data in memory only and uses a hash of the path as the storage key so that path is not stored on the server (the data itself is however stored in plaintext).

Currently the server requires no external dependencies, however, it may become necessary, given some of the features I would like to add, to use some external libraries (e.g. for client side encryption in the browser, or for alternative storage backends)

# Demo

https://8k.fyi

# Link Path

The path portion of the link can be set by the user. A [z-Base32](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base32#z-base-32) path is generated by the server as a default, but it can be replaced with any valid user-specified path. The configurable portion of the address is case sensitive, so "/path" is different to "/pAth" or "/pATh".

# Command line usage

## CURL
The key to using CURL is to be sure to send the data using `--data-binary` to ensure it arrives intact.

Pass the filename to be uploaded to the `--data-binary` flag using `@<filename>`,
> On the command line, you need to specify an endpoint to use, so just make one up thats easy to remember.

```
curl -X POST --data-binary @nginx.log https://8k.fyi/nlog
https://8k.fyi/nlog
```
or alternatively if you want to cat or send the output of another command,
pipe the data to curl, and tell curl to read from stdin using `--data-binary @-`
```
cat datasheet.pdf | curl -X POST --data-binary @- https://8k.fyi/d.pdf
https://8k.fyi/d.pdf
```
A successful upload will return a 200 OK and the URL to the data you uploaded

## HTTPie

```
http https://8k.fyi/tf < file.txt
```
you can retrieve the file just as simply;
```
http https://8k.fyi/tf > file.txt
```

# Building

This project currently requires no external dependencies. There are no modules to pull, just build the code and run it.

## Docker
```
docker build -t 2bytes/8k --build-arg VERSION='1.0.1' .
```

## Buildah
```
buildah bud -f Dockerfile --build-arg VERSION='1.0.1' -t 2bytes/8k .
```

## Binary
```
CGO_ENABLED=0 go build -o 8192 -ldflags "-X github.com/2bytes/8k/internal/flags.Version=1.0.1" cmd/8192/main.go
```

# Running

The container version can be run using Docker/Podman, and the binary can be executed on the platform for which it was built.

There are various flags for configuring the server, only `--iu-addr` is required.

```
Usage of ./8192:
  -accent-colour string
            set the accent colour for the web page (default "#FF8C00")
  -addr string
            set the bind address
  -html string
            set the path to the index html template file for the frontend (default "/frontend/index.html")
  -https
            enable TLS
  -mb int
            override the max bytes count (default 8192)
  -mi int
            set the maximum number of items to store before disallowing (default 1000)
  -pl int
            override autogenerated path length (default 8)
  -port int
            set the bind port (default 8192)
  -title string
            set the title of the web page (default "8k.fyi")
  -tls-cert string
            path to the TLS certificate (default "/tls/public.crt")
  -tls-key string
            path to the TLS key (default "/tls/private.key")
  -ttl duration
            the time before an uploaded data item expires and is deleted (default 1h0m0s)
  -ui-addr string
            UI: set the public address displayed in the UI text/links
  -ui-https
        UI: use 'https' as the proto displayed in the UI text/links
  -ui-port int
        UI: set the public port displayed in the UI/text/links (default 8192)
  -v	show version

```

## TLS

### Built-in Server
You can run the server with TLS directly by supplying the `-https` flag and mounting the certificates to `/tls/` using the
names shows in the defaults above, or, by settings the paths manually using the `-tls-cert` and `-tls-key` flags.

### Reverse Proxy
If you wish to run the server behind a reverse proxy, don't enable binding tls with `-https` but configure the `-ui-*` flags according to your requirements.

```
docker run --net backend --name 8kserver -d --rm  8192bytes --ui-addr 192.168.1.100 --ui-port 4433 --ui-https
```
If you run NGINX in Docker as a reverse proxy, you can attach nginx to the same network and refer to this server as '8kserver' in the upstream directive.

For a reverse proxy that isn't in Docker, bind the server to 127.0.0.1 and upstream nginx to that.

> Don't forget to configure your firewall (for both IPv4 and IPv6)!

Enjoy

[https://2byt.es](https://2byt.es)
